ArgoCD guide (#1025)
crossplaneio/crossplane: docs/workflow/argocd.md

1. [Next Steps](#next-steps)

## Pre-requisites

This guide assumes the presence of:

* An existing Kubernetes cluster
* [kubectl] configured to access the cluster

## Preparation

Before we get started deploying infrastructure and application components, we
need to set up ArgoCD and Crossplane in our existing Kubernetes cluster.

### Set Up ArgoCD

ArgoCD has a great [getting started] guide that walks through installing the
platform into your Kubernetes cluster. We will only need to complete steps 1-3
for this guide as we will be deploying all Crossplane components to the same
cluster that is running ArgoCD.

*Note: ArgoCD uses self-signed certificates, and it may be necessary to [enable
insecure connections] on localhost to utilize port-forwarding.*

### Install Crossplane Components

For this guide we will assume that an organization wants to enable provisioning
of managed service on [GCP], [AWS], and [Azure]. To install Crossplane along
with the GCP, AWS, and Azure stacks, please see the [installation guide].

## Set Up an Infrastructure Pipeline

Now that ArgoCD and all Crossplane components are installed, it is time to build
out our infrastructure environments. 

> ### Create an Infrastructure Repository

Reviewer: would add a getting started section to workflow.md basics, then link to that section from here (to orient new users):
### Environment Configuration
 * brief intro to repo layout
 * doing basic environment customization [patch.yaml](https://github.com/hasheddan/crosscd/blob/master/classpacks/services-guides/gcp/patch.yaml)
 * `kubectl apply -k` apply it

Author: @prasek thinking about making this a little more basic (i.e. more like the demo on TBS today). What do you think? How much of this do you still want moved to `workflow.md`?

Reviewer: @hasheddan yes, the TBD demo was awesome! 

suggest going with something similar to https://github.com/crossplaneio/tbs/tree/master/episodes/5/assets/infra plus:
 - infra classes for each kind
 - env (dev, test) patch for kustomizing `region` and `network`

Then do this for each cloud:
```text
aws
└── app   # wordpress examples
└── env   # environments
       └── dev # ../../infra base + dev patch.yaml
       └── test # ../../infra base + test patch.yaml
└── infra  # classes for all kinds plus secure networking / conn

gcp
└── app
└── env 
       └── dev
       └── test
└── infra

azure
└── app
└── env 
       └── dev
       └── test
└── infra
```

classes that you intend to use as they are all cluster-scoped. In addition, you
must at least enable `in-cluster` as a destination. An example of the most
permissive project would look as follows: 

![alt argo-infra-proj](argo-infra-proj.png)

### Configure Dev and Prod Environments

Before we create ArgoCD projects for our infrastructure environments, we need to
consider how we are going to manage our `Provider` secrets in our cluster.
ArgoCD offers a variety of [secrets management integrations], but we will create
our secrets directly in our cluster for this guide. To set up your secrets and
your `Provider` objects, follow the steps in the [GCP provider], [AWS provider],
and [Azure provider] configuration guides. If you are not planning on deploying
resources on any of the three platforms, you are welcome to skip the setup of a
`Provider` for its stack.

Now we need to set up `dev` and `prod` environment resources for GCP in our
`infra` project. To do so, go to `Applications > New Application` and configure
as shown below or as appropriate with your repository:

![alt argo-infra-app-1](argo-infra-dev-app-1.png)

![alt argo-infra-app-2](argo-infra-dev-app-2.png)

> After creating the application, you should see healthy status and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
After creating the dev and prod environments in our infra project as ArgoCD applications, you should see healthy status and a
```

visualization of all resources that were created:

![alt argo-infra-app-viz](argo-infra-dev-app-viz.png)

You will notice that resource classes have both a `dev` and `prod` version
created, while the network resources (i.e. `Network`, `Subnetwork`,
`GlobalAddress`, `Connection`) have only one version and it is a managed

> resource. These resources do not support dynamic provisioning and do not have

Reviewer: would expect separate dev and prod networks/subnets ... this is probably fine for the example, but would be a stronger example with separate IMO

Author: I definitely prefer the strongest example :) However, the one drawback I see to this is that we are creating the network resources statically so we will provision a prod network in addition whether a use wants to use this guide to deploy prod and dev or not. What would you think about just adding a sentence here to the effect of "In a production scenario, you may want to set up separate networking resources for prod and dev."?

Author: I have added a similar sentence in the most recent revision

Reviewer: sounds good.

applications that will make use of our infrastructure. All of the resources that
we deploy in this project should be namespace-scoped, so there is no need to
whitelist any cluster-scoped resources. An example of an `apps` project with the
required permissions would look as follows:

![alt argo-proj-apps](argo-proj-apps.png)

### Configure an ArgoCD Application

Now to deploy the application, create a new application in the `apps` project.
It is important to pay special attention to the namespace because our
application resources will be namespace-scoped. Configure your application to
looks as follows or as needed for your application:

![alt argo-apps-wordpress-1](argo-apps-wordpress-1.png)

![alt argo-apps-wordpress-2](argo-apps-wordpress-2.png)

After creation of the application, you should see all resources appear in the
visualization. You can click on the `Service` resource to get the external IP
address of the Wordpress application when it becomes available.

![alt argo-wordpress-service](argo-wordpress-service.png)

If you navigate to the IP address, you should see the Wordpress start page.

![alt argo-wordpress-landing](argo-wordpress-landing.png)

> ## Customizing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Portable App Deployment to Multiple Clouds
```

even a different cloud provider. Assuming you also set up AWS infrastructure
configuration in the [infrastructure](#configure-dev-and-prod-environments)
section above, this can be accomplished with simple changes to the Wordpress
deployment configuration. The resource claims use label selectors to be
scheduled to a certain class. If you take a look at [the patch in our
application configuration][app-patch], you will notice the following stanza:

```yaml
 classSelector:
    matchLabels:
      env: dev
      provider: gcp
```

Simply changing these labels to `env: prod` or `provider: aws` will cause the
resources to be provisioned on production tier infrastructure or on AWS instead
of GCP! Furthermore, if you would like more granular options for deploying
infrastructure, you can customize the labels on the resource classes that were
created to include any other distinguishing traits.

## Clean Up

To clean up all of our application components, you can simply delete each
application and those resources will be removed from your cluster.

## Next Steps

Check out one of the other continuous delivery guides or customize your

> environments for your specific use case!

Author: @prasek do you want to add a link to Gitlab example here when it is ready?

Reviewer: @hasheddan yes, will do after you land this with a follow-on PR, thanks!

Reviewer: actually will add it to the workflow.md
